---
date: 2019-02-20 19:00
layout: post
title: February 2019
upcoming: true
venue: Instil Software, Belfast
register_link: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/domain-driven-design-belfast-feb-2019-registration-54550427798
---

Join us for our first meetup of 2019 hosted by Instil Software (doors will be open from 6:30pm). We have two speakers for this meetup; [Garth Gilmour](https://twitter.com/garthgilmour) and [Barry O'Sullivan](https://twitter.com/barryosull).

Garth will be speaking about the philosophy of Domain Driven Design:

The basic concepts of Domain Driven Design form an excellent shortcut to understanding some of the major themes in Western Philosophy. During this talk Garth will flatMap your knowledge of DDD into the much broader context of Life, the Universe and Everything. Along the way you will discover:
* Why all you know about booleans is wrong
* Techniques for communicating using words
* How to chat politely with an Ant Colony
* The correct interpretation of Karate Kata
* Most of Western Philosophy since WWII
* Where Wittgenstein is buried in Cambridge
* The correct way to make a Caesar Salad

Barry will be speaking about constraints and how they affect everything about our systems:

How do we define the constraints of our system? A simple question, but one we often get wrong. Too often we model constraints mechanically rather than exploring and challenging them. This leads to brittle systems and bloated software. How do we move past this? This talk is an exploration of the very concept of constraints and how they affect the systems we build. We're going to look at the different types of constraints and the impact they have over time. We'll explore techniques we can use to map, define and refine these constraints, elevating what's important and dropping everything else. We'll also look at legacy, organisational and meta-system constraints and how they impact what we build and how we build it. Mapping constraints is core to what we do, let's get better at it.